SCRIPTS
=======

Some of the scripts I use on a daily - or not - basis, and that I thought
worth sharing - who knows. Complexity varies from trivial to, well, complex.

All scripts are published under the [WTFPL](http://www.wtfpl.net/).

flac2mp3
--------

Converts FLAC audio files to MP3 (high quality) while preserving metadata
in ID3 fields. You get the best of both worlds: unadultered quality of FLACs plus 
portability of MP3s. The FLAC files may be generated using any ripping/encoding
CDDB-aware software like `ripit`. You will need `flac`, `lame`, `eyeD3`.

ggimg
-----

Searches Google Images using the parameter as search terms, grabs the first one 
to appear, normalizes its size to 480 pixels wide, renames it to the search
terms + .jpg, and creates a PNG thumbnail. Useful in addition to `ripit`, to add
images to the files (`flac2mp3` should be upgraded...) Needs `wget` and `ImageMagick`.

*Ouch! `ggimg` doesn't work anymore because Google's HTML has changed. See...*

bsimg
-----

Searches Bing Images using the parameter as search terms, grabs the first one 
to appear, normalizes its size to 480 pixels wide, renames it to the search
terms + .jpg, and creates a PNG thumbnail. Useful in addition to `ripit`, to add
images to the files (`flac2mp3` should be upgraded...) Needs `wget` and `ImageMagick`.
Acts as a replacement for Google Images as long as their code stays undecipherable.

jpg2stl
-------

Two complementary scripts which extrude an STL mesh from a JPEG image for 3D
printing. `jpg2stl.sh` can be used as a standalone script, or you can call it
from `jpg2stl.cgi` which accepts a `.jpg` image and sends back a `.stl`
file. These scripts were written for [Datapaulette](http://datapaulette.org).
They need `ImageMagick`, `potrace`, `pstoedit` and `OpenSCAD`. You can check
the result with `MeshLab`.

masteringsheet
--------------

Ugly bash script generating a mastering sheet, needed by audio mastering studios.
Good luck customizing this one... although the IRSC could prove useful.

Files should be alphabetically ordered in the directory.
You will have to create a sequential file where filenames match the titles, in the same order
as the files in the directory, looking like this:

     file1.wav First Title
     file2.wav Second Title
     (...)

mirage-disk
-----------
Dumps sound data from a Mirage-formatted diskette.
The [Ensoniq Mirage](http://www.vintagesynth.com/ensoniq/ens_mirage.php) was the very 
first popular sampler, and used 8-bit samples on 3.5" diskettes, 
which were formatted in an "interesting" way. 
Normal humans won't need this script.

new\_mew\_labels
----------------
Finds missing strings in [translation files](https://github.com/kvhnuke/etherwallet/tree/mercury/app/scripts/translations) 
for [MyEtherWallet](https://www.myetherwallet.com/).

nxv
---

Networked `xv`, that is, accepting URLs as arguments.
I'm addicted to `xv`, an image visualizer which you could find in the first Slackwares, but
as a shareware, it has been excluded from all GNU/Linux distros for a long time now. 
Furthermore, the project is abandoned by its author.
You can still grab [a copy of the sources](http://www.trilon.com/xv/downloads.html), 
and compile them - or use `qiv` for which you can easily adapt this script, or `display`
which accepts URLs by default, or any modern software you like.

paragrep
--------

`grep` for paragraphs: first, formats each paragraph (separated by two line feeds) as a single line, 
then greps a pattern in it. Does its best to preserve patterns and options passed to the real `grep`.
By the way, `--color=always` is really useful to spot the pattern in huge chunks of text.
Reduces multiple contiguous spaces to a single one.
Accepts input from stdin. Without any pattern, will simply format the paragraphs as lines.

rcf
---

Perl program which computes the third value of an electronic first-order RC filter, given 
two values, with an absurd precision, and a more significant number between parentheses.
For example, a 2.2 kiloohm resistor and a 10 nanofarad capacitor

     rcf 2.2k 10n

return `7234.52895981943 (7.2k)` in Hertz, but the units are interchangeable, i.e. you
can deduce a capacitor value given the resistor and the cutoff frequency.


testmd
------

Generates HTML from a [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) file, 
in `/tmp/testmd.html`. I use it mostly for READMEs like this one.




